Title: 5 tips for boosting your typing speed for a timed test [INFOGRAPHIC]

5 tips to 
Boost your typing speed 
for a timed test

Desc: Before an important timed test, here are a few things you can help yourself to get an extra jolt of speed.

Body:
To hype himself up before every race, Michael Phelps listens to a special track of music to get himself into the zone.

In fact, he doesn’t take off his headphones until the last second before diving into the pool.

Of course, the music isn’t what makes Phelps win. 
He’s been training his entire life for these races, but this little routine that he goes through before each race helps him to unleash his full potential at the time it’s being tested.

For students who are facing down the prospect of a timed test, there’s a lot to learn from Phelps’ experience.

Just the same, typing speed is built up with practice over time, it doesn’t come overnight. 
You develop it naturally as you build up muscle memory in your fingers.

That said, before an important timed test, there are a few things you can help yourself to get an extra jolt of speed.

Here are some tricks you can use to help speed up your touch typing on the spot:

(Scroll down for a shareable infographic that will help you remember these tips!)

Flex Your Hands – Before you begin, flex and move your hands and fingers to warm them up. 

Warm Up – Before you start, warm up your fingers by keying a few practice sentences. 
“The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog” makes a good warm up because it contains all the letters of the alphabet.

Take a Few Deep Breaths – Just before the timed test begins, take a deep breath and let it out slowly. Inhale through your nose and exhale through your mouth. Repeat several times. The extra air in your lungs will help calm your nerves.

Keep Your Eyes Focused – During the timed test, keep your eyes on the text you are typing. This will help you keep a steady pace and increase speed and accuracy.

keep your eyes on what you are typing to help you keep a steady pace and increase speed and accuracy.

Relax, Mistakes Are Okay – If you make a mistake, don’t worry. Mistakes are part of learning how to type. Just move on so you can keep a steady typing pace until the timed test is over.

Хэрвээ та алдаа гаргасан бол санаа зовох хэрэггүй. Зүгээр л үргэлжлүүлээрэй. Ингэснээр шалгалт дуусах хүртэл тогтмол хурдаа хадгалж бичиж чадна.

Once again, typing speed doesn’t come overnight, it comes from practicing regularly. 
But, be sure to follow these 5 steps before a timed test and you’ll be sure to capture your best time yet!
