Title: The Underrated Skill You Really Need in all Top Professions

Desc: Employers seek a min. typing speed of 50 wpm for the sake of productivity, and around 30% of managers say they wouldn’t hire someone who can’t touch type. Here are 10 of the top professions, and how typing is an integral part of the job.

Body: In today’s technologically advanced world, basic computer skills like typing are becoming necessary in most professions.

Many employers now seek a minimum typing speed of 50 words per minute simply for the sake of productivity, and around 30% of managers say they wouldn’t hire someone who can’t touch type.

Whatever career path you choose, typing could be the skill that sets you apart!

Top Keyboard-Intensive Professions
You might be surprised at how much time people in major professions spend hitting the keys, even when their job technically has nothing to do with computers:

Physician
According to a study recently published in the Annals of Internal Medicine, nearly half of a doctor’s day is now spent typing information into electronic medical records or doing other administrative work. They spend more time documenting what they find than examining patients.

Writer or Journalist
Most journalists and writers spend the majority of their day (long days…) typing up stories, researching online, and using their computers to find, process, and generate information. For them, touch typing ability and speed are especially critical.

Computer Programmer
Figuring out how to solve problems is a key part of this position. The solution always involves pounding out hundreds or thousands of lines of code. Then debug those and repeat. Programmers are especially notorious for marathon keyboard sessions, spending 6-8 hours a day or longer at the keyboard.

Web Developer
Whether manipulating graphics with design software, coding the HTML and JavaScript that run things behind the scenes, or moving everything over 3 pixels (for the third time), a web dev’s hands are always on the keyboard. If typing speed leaves something to be desired, fewer websites are completed (and paid for).

Police Officer
For every incident or arrest police officers type up a report. Statistics show they spend about 40% of their time on such work. That’s 4 hours out of every 10-hour shift. Some officers’ primary work is “desk duty,” rather than patrolling, where they spend even more time typing. 

Manager/CEO
Communicating with others is at the core of this job. Whether interacting with employees or building up personal networks, there’s a lot of email and typing involved. 

Lawyer
For attorneys, who typically bill by the hour, the phrase time = money is especially true. Meeting with clients or going to court are the meat and potatoes of legal work, but a lot more time goes to recording client meeting notes, typing up legal briefs, and following up on email correspondence. Learn to type efficiently and cut time spent on every one of these by one third to one half. 

Scientist
For scientists, it’s all about the data. That data has to be recorded, organized, analyzed, and written up for publication. Where does all of that happen? At the keyboard, of course.

Writing at the Speed of Thought
The bottom line is that touch typing allows you to type without thinking about it. You won’t be slowed down by figuring out where the next key is located. Even if you’ve developed a pretty speedy two-finger technique and don’t have to look at the keyboard much, learning the touch typing, home keys method will make you much faster.

It’s also not very hard to master. If you practice just 15 minutes a day for several weeks, your typing speed will dramatically increase. Learn to type the right way, for free, at Typing.com. Weak typing ability isn’t something to be embarrassed about; it’s something to fix!